# Sparkify

## Udacity Data Engineering Nanodegree

Sparkify is a fictional music streaming platform created by Udacity. 

For this project we are given data about songs, users, artits and song plays of this platform in 
order to create a star schema model on postgres an create ETL pipeline to load the data tables.

### Getting Started 

The instructions below will help you to follow the step made to get to out goal.

#### Dataset

Song Dataset is a collection of json files. s a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.
Log Dataset : is a collection of json files also. The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

#### Files

test.ipynb: displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
create_tables.py: drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
etl.ipynb: reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
etl.py: reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
sql_queries.py: contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.

#### Running the Python files

You can run the python files from a terminal with the command `python name_of_the_file`. 
**You will not be able to run test.ipynb, etl.ipynb, or etl.py until you have run create_tables.py at least once to create the sparkifydb database, which these other files connect to.**

#### Database schema

After runnig successfully all your code you will have the following database schema:

https://dbdesigner.page.link/TiWjQsyaPPNUQqxPA